Software is what makes the machine tick. If a computer has a soul it keeps it in its software. Software uses the 
physical ability of the hardware, which can run programs, do something useful. It is called software because it has no 
physical existence and it is comparatively easy to change. Software is the voice which says "Computer Running" in a Star 
Trek film. We are going to use an operating system called MS-DOS. Later we will be using UNIX. All computers are sold 
with some software. Without it they would just be a novel and highly expensive heating system. The software which comes 
with a computer is often called its Operating System. The Operating System makes the machine usable. It looks after all 
the information held on the computer and provides lots of commands to allow you to manage things. It also lets you run 
programs, ones you have written and ones from other people. You will have to learn to talk to an operating system so 
that you can create your C programs and get them to go. Data and Information
People use the words data and information interchangeably. They seem to think that one means the other. I regard data 
and information as two different things: 
Data is the collection of ons and offs which computers store and manipulate. 
Information is the interpretation of the data by people to mean something. Strictly speaking computers process data, 
humans work on information. An example, the computer holds the bit pattern: 1111111 11111111 11111111 00000000 
However you could regard this as meaning: "you are 256 pounds overdrawn at the bank" 
or "you are 256 feet below the surface of the ground" 
or "eight of the thirty two light switches are off" 
The transition from data to information is usually made when the human reads the output. So why am I being so pedantic? 
Because it is vital to remember that a computer does not "know" what the data it is processing actually means. As far as 
it is concerned data is just patterns of bits, it is you who gives meaning to these patterns. Remember this when you get 
a bank statement which says that you have [[sterling]]8,388,608! Data Processing
Computers are data processors. Information is fed into them, they do something with it, and then generate further 
information. A computer program tells the computer what to do with the information coming in. A computer works on data 
in the same way that a sausage machine works on meat, something is put in one end, some processing is performed, and 
something comes out of the other end:
This makes a computer a very good "mistake amplifier", as well as a useful thing to blame..... A program is unaware of 
the data it is processing in the same way that a sausage machine is unaware of what meat is. Put a bicycle into a 
sausage machine and it will try to make sausages out of it. Put duff data into a computer and it will do equally useless 
things. It is only us people who actually ascribe meaning to data (see above), as far a the computer is concerned it is 
just stuff coming in which has to be manipulated in some way.
A computer program is just a sequence of instructions which tell a computer what to do with the data coming in, and what 
form the data sent out will have. 
Note that the data processing side of computers, which you might think is entirely reading and writing numbers, is much 
more than that, examples of typical data processing applications are: 
Digital Watch : A micro-computer in your watch is taking pulses from a crystal and requests from buttons, processing 
this data and producing a display which tells you the time. 
Car : A micro-computer in the engine is taking information from sensors telling it the current engine speed, road speed, 
oxygen content of the air, setting of the accelerator etc and producing voltages out which control the setting of the 
carburettor, timing of the spark etc, to optimise the performance of the engine. 
CD Player : A computer is taking a signal from the disk and converting it into the sound that you want to hear. At the 
same time it is keeping the laser head precisely positioned and also monitoring all the buttons in case you want to 
select another part of the disk. 
Note that some of these data processing applications are merely applying technology to existing devices to improve the 
way they work. However one, the CD player, could not be made to work without the built-in data processing ability. 
Most reasonably complex devices contain data processing components to optimise their performance and some exist only 
because we can build in intelligence. It is into this world that we, as software writers are moving. It is important to 
think of business of data processing as much more than working out the company payroll, reading in numbers and printing 
out results. These are the traditional uses of computers. Note that this "raises the stakes" in that the consequences of 
software failing could be very damaging. As engineers it is inevitable that a great deal of our time will be spent 
fitting data processing components into other devices to drive them. You will not press a switch to make something work, 
you will press a switch to tell a computer to make it work. These embedded systems will make computer users of everybody, 
and we will have to make sure that they are not even aware that there is a computer in there!
